# 202203

## 201906

### Passage one

**Therapy animals**

1. Airline passengers have to deal with a lot these days, ==getting bumped from flight== and losing luggage on top of the general line anxiety that nervous passengers always feel.
2. They have had hundreds of hours of airport training, so they are used to ==having luggages and people crowding around them==.
3. These professional animals are probably better at finding the way in the airports than ==the most frequent travellers==.
4. Some passengers enjoy the animals so much that they call the airport to schedule flights around their visits.

### Passage two

**Roman-era site**

1. These scenes are ==turning up== in the southern French city of Oral, surprising the historians who has been working here since 2014.
2. Patches of paints still cling to the stone wall of the bedroom and reception hall.
3. Some of the images include ==figures never seen before== in France, such as a woman playing a stringed instrument, possibly a character from mythology.
4. They ==were likely== hired by one of the city's elite, perhaps a Roman official wanted Pompeii-like interior to remind him of home.
5. He ==was probably stationed in== this ==provincial trading port==, found in 46 B.C. as a colony for veterans of the Roman army.
6. Or maybe a wealthy local wanted to ==show off his worldly sophistication==.
7. The paintings may ==yield even more stunning surprises== as additional sections are put together, like pieces of a puzzle.
8. ==Whoever is was that== created such magnificent pieces of art, they surely ==had no idea that== their work would still be around thousands of years later.

### Recording one

**Internation research**

1. Today though, we are seeing ==the mergers of some of the greatest scientific minds==, regardless of their locations.
2. There has ==never been a better time== for collaborations with foreign scientists.
3. ==Spurred on by== funding policy, half of European research articles had international co-authors in 2007, this is ==more than twice the level of== two decades ago.
4. This is a ==sign of the continued allure== of creating scientific coalitions across borders.
5. The internet ==allows like-minded scientists to find== each other.
6. Simultaneously, ==dramatic drops in communication costs ease long-distance interactions==, and there's a reward.
7. Whereas local collaborations sometimes ==persist past the point of usefulness==, because of social or academic obligations, international ones can be cultivated and dropped more freely.
8. This rise ==is also apparently boosted by== policies embedded in European framework funding schemes.
9. This policies ==underlie== funding requirements that often require teamwork.
10. These ideas underlie much of his work.

### Recording two

**Venus**

1. It ==told of== how scientists ==rode a ballon== to an altitude of 80000 feet to make telescope observations of Venus's atmosphere, and how their discovery of water ==raised hopes== that there could be living things there.
2. ==The very first thing that scientists discovered with a mission to another planet was that== Venus was not at all the earthly paradise that fiction has portrayed.
3. It is nearly identical to our own planet ==in bulk properties==, such as mass, density and size.
4. But it surface has been cooked an dried by an ocean of carbon dioxide, ==trapped in the burning death grip of runaway greenhouse effect==.
5. Venus has long been held up as a cautionary tale for everything that could go wrong on a planet like earth.
6. As a possible home for alien life, it has been voted the planet ==least likely to succeed==.
7. The surface formed mostly in the last billion years, which makes it fresher and more recently active than any rocky planet ==other than earth==.
8. Venus ==was arguably== a cozier habitat for life than earth.

### Recording three

**Cultural psychology**

1. Our research team has been looking at cultural differences in ==self-enhancing motivations==, help people have positive feelings towards not only themselves but things connected to themselves.
2. We have been looking at ==other ways of seeing== whether this ==motivation to view oneself positively== is shaped by cultural experiences.
3. We are still ==in the exploratory stage== of this project, although what's noteworthy is that East Asians sleep about ==an hour and a half== less each night than North Americans do.
4. And it's not a more efficient sleep, not like they're ==compressing relatively more value out of their hours==.
5. Why do we study sleep? Sleep is something that has really been an ==unexplored topic cross-culturally==.
6. And if everything looks promising, then it will justify trying to build a sleep lab and study sleep across cultures that way.
7. I'm attracted to it because culture isn't something that only shapes the way our minds operate, it shapes the way our body operate too, and sleep is ==at the intersection of== those.

## 201812

### Recording two

**Language diversity**

1. This island, just 100 kilometers long and 20 kilometers wide, ==is home to speakers of perhaps 40 different indigenous languages==.
2. Instead, today our species ==collectively== speaks over 7000 distinct languages, and these languages are not spread randomly accross the planet.
3. ==How come== humans speak so many languages? and why are they so  unevenly spread across the planet?
4. ==As it turns out==, we ==have few clear answers== to these fundamental questions about how ==humanity== communicates.
5. Most people can easily brainstorm possible answers to these intriguing questions.
6. But when our diverse team of researchers from six different ==disciplines== and eight different countries began to review what was known, we were shocked that only a dozen previous studies had been done, ==including one we ourselves== completed on language diversity in the Pacific.
7. These prior efforts all examined ==the degree to which different environmental, social and geographic variables correlated with the number of languages== found in a given location.
8. The results varied a lot ==from one study to another==, and no clear patterns emerged.
9. The studies also ==ran up against the problem== of methodological challenges, ==the biggest of which centered on== the old statistical saying - - correlation does not equal causation. 